feat(caggs on caggs) (#1862)
timescale/docs: timescaledb/how-to-guides/continuous-aggregates/continuous-aggregates-on-continuous-aggregates.md

---
title: Continuous aggregates on continuous aggregates
excerpt: Create continuous aggregates on top of continuous aggregates to summarize data at different granularities
keywords: [continuous aggregates, create]
---

> # Continuous aggregates on continuous aggregates

Reviewer: I thought it had a proper name? Hierarchical continuous aggregates? 🤔

You can create continuous aggregates on top of other continuous aggregates. This
allows you to summarize data at different granularities. For example, you might
have an hourly continuous aggregate that summarizes minute-by-minute data. To
get a daily summary, you can create a new continuous aggregate on top of your
hourly aggregate. This is more efficient than creating the daily aggregate on
top of the original hypertable, because you can reuse the calculations from the
hourly aggregate.

> This feature is available in version 2.9 and above of TimescaleDB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This feature is available in TimescaleDB 2.9 and above.
```

aggregates don't receive any unmaterialized data from lower levels.

For example, say you have the following continuous aggregates:

*   A real-time hourly continuous aggregate on the source hypertable
*   A real-time daily continuous aggregate on the hourly continuous aggregate
*   A non-real-time, or materialized-only, monthly continuous aggregate on the
    daily continuous aggregate
*   A real-time yearly continuous aggregate on the monthly continuous aggregate

Queries on the hourly and daily continuous aggregates include real-time,
non-materialized data from the source hypertable. Queries on the monthly
continuous aggregate only return already-materialized data. Queries on the
yearly continuous aggregate return materialized data from the yearly continuous
aggregate itself, plus more recent data from the monthly continuous aggregate.
However, the data is limited to what is already materialized in the monthly
continuous aggregate, and doesn't get even more recent data from the source
hypertable. This happens because the materialized-only continuous aggregate
provides a stopping point, and the yearly continuous aggregate is unaware of any

> layers beyond that stopping point. This aligns with how stacked views work in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
layers beyond that stopping point. This is similar to how stacked views work in
```

Reviewer: Might also want to point to PG docs here?

Author: @fabriziomello I got this from the design discussion in the original issue, do you know if it's discussed in the PostgreSQL docs? I tried to search for it but got nothing

Reviewer 2: @charislam here we have an example: https://www.postgresql.org/docs/14/rules-views.html#RULES-SELECT

PostgreSQL.

To make queries on the yearly continuous aggregate access all recent data, you
can either:

> *   Make the monthly continuous aggregate real-time
> *   Or redefine the yearly continuous aggregate on top of the daily continuous
>     aggregate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*   Make the monthly continuous aggregate real-time, or
*   Redefine the yearly continuous aggregate on top of the daily continuous
    aggregate.
```

## Roll up calculations

When summarizing already-summarized data, be aware of how stacked calculations
work. Not all calculations return the correct result if you stack them.

> For example, if you take the maximum of several sub-sets, then take the maximum

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if you take the maximum of several subsets, then take the maximum
```

of the maximums, you get the maximum of the entire set. But if you take the

> average of several sub-sets, then take the average of the averages, that is, in
> general, different from taking the average of all the data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
average of several sub-sets, then take the average of the averages, that 
can result in a different figure than the average of all the data.
```

To simplify such calculations when using continuous aggregates on top of
continuous aggregates, you can use the [hyperfunctions][hyperfunctions] from
TimescaleDB Toolkit, such as the [statistical aggregates][stats-aggs]. These
hyperfunctions are designed with a two-step aggregation pattern which allows you
to roll them up into larger buckets. The first step creates a summary aggregate
that can be rolled up, just as a maximum can be rolled up. You can store this
aggregate in your continuous aggregate. Then, you can call an accessor function
as a second step when you query from your continuous aggregate. This accessor
takes the stored data from the summary aggregate and returns the final result.

## Restrictions

There are some restrictions when creating a continuous aggregate on top of
another continuous aggregate. In most cases, these restrictions are in place to
ensure valid time-bucketing:

*   You can only create a continuous aggregate on top of a finalized continuous
    aggregate. This new finalized format is the default for all continuous

>     aggregates created since TimescaleDB 2.7. If you need to create a continuous
>     aggregate on top of a continuous aggregate in the old format, first [migrate
>     your continuous aggregate][migrate-cagg].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    aggregates created since TimescaleDB 2.7. If you need to create a continuous
    aggregate on top of a continuous aggregate that is in the old format, you need to 
    [migrate your continuous aggregate][migrate-cagg] to the new format first.
```

    hourly continuous aggregate into a new continuous aggregate with time
    buckets of 6 hours. You can't rebucket the hourly continuous aggregate into
    a new continuous aggregate with time buckets of 90 minutes, because 90
    minutes is not a multiple of 1 hour.

*   A continuous aggregate with a fixed-width time bucket can't be created on
    top of a continuous aggregate with a variable-width time bucket. Fixed-width
    time buckets are time buckets defined in seconds, minutes, hours, and days,
    because those time intervals are always the same length. Variable-width time
    buckets are time buckets defined in months or years, because those time
    intervals vary by the month or on leap years. This limitation prevents a
    case such as trying to rebucket monthly buckets into `61 day` buckets, where
    there is no good mapping between time buckets for month combinations such as
    July/August (62 days).

    Note that even though weeks are fixed-width intervals, you can't use monthly
    or yearly time buckets on top of weekly time buckets for the same reason.
    The number of weeks in a month or year is usually not an integer.

>     You *can* stack a variable-width time bucket on top of a fixed-width time

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    However, you can stack a variable-width time bucket on top of a fixed-width time
```
